AWS BILLING :
---------------

AWS Billing and Cost Management is the service that you use to pay your AWS bill, monitor your usage, and analyze and control your costs.
AWS automatically charges the credit card that you provided when you signed up for a new account with AWS. Charges appear on your monthly credit card bill.
The Billing and Cost Management service provides features that you can use to do the following:
  • Estimate and plan your AWS costs
  • Receive alerts if your costs exceed a threshold that you set
  • Assess your biggest investments in AWS resources
  • Simplify your accounting if you work with multiple AWS accounts

The AWS Billing and Cost Management console includes the no-cost Cost Explorer tool for viewing your AWS cost data as a graph.
With Cost Explorer, you can filter graphs by values such as :
  --> API operation, Availability Zone, AWS service, custom cost allocation tag, Amazon EC2  , purchase option, AWS Region, usage type, usage type group, and more.

All AWS account owners have access to account and billing support free of charge.
You can find answers to your questions quickly by visiting the AWS Knowledge Center.

Consolidated billing allows you to view, manage, and pay bills for multiple AWS accounts in one user interface.
Volume discounts can be earned by combining the usage from all accounts your own.

Open the Billing and Cost Management console athttps://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/ , we have the following :
    --> Cost Explorer          : To track and analyze your AWS usage. Cost Explorer is free for all accounts.
    --> Budgets                : To manage budgets for your account and to get notified
    --> Budgets Reports        : Notifications from Budgets
    --> Savings Plans          : Flexible pricing model that offer low prices on AWS usage, in exchange for a commitment to a consistent amount of usage (measured in $/hour) for a 1- or 3-year term.
    --> Cost & Usage Reports   : Detailed description about the billing from each hour and each resource.
    --> Cost Categories
    --> Cost allocation tags
    --> Orders and Invoices    : To see your past payments and transactions.
    --> Knowledge Centre       : You can find answers to your questions quickly by visiting the AWS Knowledge Center.
    --> Cost Anamoly Detection : Analyze and determine the root cause of the anomaly, such as account, service, Region, or usage type that is driving the cost increase.
    --> Simple Monthly Calculator : provide accurate estimates of AWS service costs based on your expected usage
        [pricing calculator ]

    AWS SIMPLE MONTHLY CALCULATOR :
    ----------------------------------
    The AWS Simple Monthly Calculator helps you estimate your monthly AWS bill more efficiently.
    The calculator can be used to determine your best and worst case scenarios and identify areas of development to reduce your monthly costs.
    The AWS Simple Monthly Calculator is continuously updated with the latest pricing for all AWS services in all Regions.
    The AWS Simple Monthly Calculator is available at: https://calculator.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html


    AWS COST & USAGE REPORT :
    ---------------------------
    The AWS Cost & Usage Report is your one-stop shop for accessing the most detailed information available about your AWS costs and usage.
    The AWS Cost & Usage Report lists AWS usage for each service category used by an account and its IAM users in hourly or daily line items, as well as any tags that you have activated for cost allocation purposes.
    It does not provide Savings Plan recommendations.

    AWS COST EXPLORER :
    --------------------
    AWS COST EXPLORER  is a free tool that you can use to view your costs and usage.
    You can view data up to the last 13 months, forecast how much you are likely to spend for the next three months, and get recommendations for what Reserved Instances to purchase.
    You can use AWS Cost Explorer to see patterns in how much you spend on AWS resources over time, identify areas that need further inquiry, and see trends that you can use to understand your costs.
    You can also specify time ranges for the data, and view time data by day or by month.
    Customers can receive Savings Plan recommendations at the member (linked) account level in addition to the existing AWS organization-level recommendations in AWS Cost Explorer.

    AWS BUDGETS :
    -----------------
    AWS Budgets gives you the ability to set custom budgets that alert you when your costs or usage exceed (or are forecasted to exceed) your budgeted amount.
    There are three main types of Budgets that Customers can create using the AWS Budgets service:

    1- Cost Budgets:
    AWS Cost Budgets gives customers the ability to set custom budgets that alert them when their costs exceed (or are forecasted to exceed) their budgeted amount.

    2- Usage Budgets:
    AWS Usage Budgets can alert customers when their usage exceeds (or is forecasted to exceed) the thresholds they define.

    3- Reservation Budgets:
    Customers can use the Reservation Budgets to set reservation utilization or coverage targets and receive alerts when their utilization drops below the threshold they define.
    This will help AWS customers track the utilization of their reserved instances and avoid over-spending on unused reservations.


CONSOLIDATED BILLING :
-------------------------
You can use the consolidated billing feature in AWS Organizations to consolidate billing and payment for multiple AWS accounts or multiple Amazon Internet Services Pvt. Ltd (AISPL) accounts.
Every organization in AWS Organizations has a management account that pays the charges of all the member accounts.
For more information about organizations, see the AWS Organizations User Guide.

Consolidated billing has the following benefits:
    --> One bill – You get one bill for multiple accounts.
    --> Easy tracking – You can track the charges across multiple accounts and download the combined cost and usage data.
    --> Combined usage – You can combine the usage across all accounts in the organization to share the volume pricing discounts, Reserved Instance discounts, and Savings Plans.
        This can result in a lower charge for your project, department, or company than with individual standalone accounts.
    --> No extra fee – Consolidated billing is offered at no additional cost.

If you have access to the management account, you can see a combined view of the AWS charges that the member accounts incur. You also can get a cost report for each member account.
When a member account leaves an organization, the member account can no longer access Cost Explorer data that was generated when the account was in the organization.
The data isn't deleted, and the management account in the organization can still access the data.
If the member account re-joins the organization, the member account can access the data again.

The management account is billed for all charges of the member accounts.
However, unless the organization is changed to support all features in the organization (not consolidated billing features only) and member accounts are explicitly restricted by policies, each member account is otherwise independent from the other member accounts.
For example, the owner of a member account can sign up for AWS services, access resources, and use AWS Premium Support unless the management account restricts those actions.
Each account owner continues to use their own IAM user name and password, with account permissions assigned independently of other accounts in the organization.

Each month, AWS charges the management account owner, and not the owners of the member accounts.
To see the total usage and charges across all the accounts in an organization, see the Bills page of the management account.
AWS updates the page multiple times each day. Additionally, AWS makes a downloadable cost report available each day.
Although the owners of the member accounts aren't charged, they can still see their usage and charges by going to their AWS Bills pages.
They can't view or obtain data for the management account or any other member accounts on the bill.

  EXAMPLE FOR VOLUME DISCOUNTS :
  -------------------------------
  For example, let's say that Bob's consolidated bill includes both Bob's own account and Susan's account.
  Bob's account is the management account, so he pays the charges for both himself and Susan.
  Say Bob transfers 8 TB of data during the month and Susan transfers 4 TB.

  For the purposes of this example, AWS charges $0.17 per GB for the first 10 TB of data transferred and $0.13 for the next 40 TB.
  This translates into $174.08 per TB (= .17*1024) for the first 10 TB, and $133.12 per TB (= .13*1024) for the next 40 TB.
  Remember that 1 TB = 1024 GB.

  For the 12 TB that Bob and Susan used, Bob's management account is charged ($174.08 * 10 TB) + ($133.12 * 2 TB) = $1740.80 + $266.24 = $2,007.04.

  If they have been billed individually :
  For the 8Tb that BOB used , ($174.08 * 8 Tb) + For the 4Tb Susan used , ($174.08 * 4 Tb) = $1392.64 + $696.32 = $2088.96
  So they have combinedly saved  $81 using consolidated billing .

For billing purposes, the consolidated billing feature of AWS Organizations treats all the accounts in the organization as one account.
This means that all accounts in the organization can receive the hourly cost benefit of Reserved Instances that are purchased by any other account.
For an Amazon EC2 Reserved Instances example, suppose that Bob and Susan each have an account in an organization.
Susan has five Reserved Instances of the same type, and Bob has none.
During one particular hour, Susan uses three instances and Bob uses six, for a total of nine instances on the organization's consolidated bill.
AWS bills five instances as Reserved Instances, and the remaining four instances as regular instances.

Bob receives the cost benefit from Susan's Reserved Instances only if he launches his instances in the same Availability Zone where Susan purchased her Reserved Instances.
For example, if Susan specifies us-west-2a when she purchases her Reserved Instances, Bob must specify us-west-2a when he launches his instances to get the cost benefit on the organization's consolidated bill.
However, the actual locations of Availability Zones are independent from one account to another.
For example, the us-west-2a Availability Zone for Bob's account might be in a different location than the location for Susan's account.

NOTE : The management account of an organization can turn off Reserved Instance (RI) discount and Savings Plans discount sharing for any accounts in that organization, including the management account.
This means that RIs and Savings Plans discounts aren't shared between any accounts that have sharing turned off.
To share an RI or Savings Plans discount with an account, both accounts must have sharing turned on.


POST - CLOSURE PERIOD : - 90 DAYS
-------------------------
After you close an AWS account in accordance with the process above, you can no longer use it to access AWS services, but for 90 days after your account is closed (the "Post-Closure Period"), you can view your AWS account's past billing information and access AWS Support.
You can contact support if you would like to reopen your account and you might be charged for any resources that are not terminated .
After the Post-Closure Period, we permanently close your AWS account, and you can't reopen it.
Any content that you didn't delete is deleted, and any AWS services that you didn't terminate are terminated.


COST EXPLORER :
------------------
Cost Explorer is a tool that enables you to view and analyze your costs and usage.
You can explore your usage and costs using the main graph, the Cost Explorer cost and usage reports, or the Cost Explorer RI reports.
You can view data for up to the last 12 months, forecast how much you're likely to spend for the next 12 months, and get recommendations for what Reserved Instances to purchase.
You can use Cost Explorer to identify areas that need further inquiry and see trends that you can use to understand your costs.

AWS BUDGETS :
------------------
AWS Budgets gives you the ability to set custom budgets that alert you when your costs or usage exceed (or are forecasted to exceed) your budgeted amount.
You can also use AWS Budgets to set reservation utilization or coverage targets and receive alerts when your metrics drop below the threshold you define.
Reservation alerts support Amazon EC2, Amazon RDS, Amazon Redshift, Amazon ElastiCache, and Elasticsearch reservations.
You can send SNS topics when a budget exceeds your limit.
You can use AWS Budgets to track and take action on your AWS cost and usage.
You can use AWSBudgets to monitor your aggregate utilization and coverage metrics for your Reserved Instances (RIs) or Savings Plans.
  • Setting a monthly cost budget with a FIXED target amount
  • Setting a monthly cost budget with a VARIABLE target amount
  • Setting a monthly usage budget with a fixed usage amount
  • Setting a daily utilization or coverage budget to track your RI or Savings Plans.

AWS COST ANAMOLY DETECTION :
--------------------------------
AWS Cost Anomaly Detection is an AWS Cost Management feature that uses machine learning to continuously monitor your cost and usage to detect unusual spends.
Using AWS Cost Anomaly Detection includes the following benefits:
  • Receive alerts individually in aggregated reports. You can receive alerts in an email or an Amazon SNS topic.
  • Evaluate your spend patterns using machine learning methods to minimize false positive alerts. For example, you can evaluate weekly or monthly seasonality and organic growth.
  • Analyze and determine the root cause of the anomaly, such as account, service, Region, or usage type that is driving the cost increase.


AWS PRICING CALCULATOR : -> Check costs before actually using and create an estimate . https://calculator.aws/#/
--------------------------
AWS Pricing Calculator lets you explore AWS services and create an estimate for the cost of your use cases on AWS.
You can model your solutions before building them, explore the price points and calculations behind your estimate, and find the available instance types and contract terms that meet your needs.
This enables you to make informed decisions about using AWS. You can plan your AWS costs and usage or price out setting up a new set of instances and services.

SAVE & SHARE THE ESTIMATE YOU CREATE :
You can save each estimate's unique link to share or revisit directly through your browser.
Estimates are saved to AWS public servers. Any changes that you make to an estimate requires you to save again.
AWS Pricing Calculator doesn't save automatically.
Each time that you save an estimate, the system generates a unique link.
If you don't copy and save the newly generated link, you can't access any saved changes.
